>> Brian Holt: Graphs,
I think this is really cool.
I've now worked for
two major, social networks.
I worked at Reddit and
I worked at LinkedIn.
I now work for Microsoft.
I'm trying to get a new job every time
I come back and give one of these.
[LAUGH] Mostly successful so far.
But a big part of social
networks are graphs.
And actually,
a surprisingly amount of computer science,
especially as we go forward.
We're finding out more and
more that graphs are a central
concept to what we want
to achieve as engineer.
So the basic idea, well, let's just
talk about an example of a graph.
So Facebook's social graph,
is probably one of the more well
known uses of the term graph.
The idea being that I'm friends with you,
you're friends with her,
she's friends with him, right?
And he doesn't like me, so
he's not friends with me.
It's okay, I don't blame you.
So that's the idea that this graph
that we have all these nodes,
we're still gonna call them nodes.
And then, we have all these connections
between the various nodes for
whatever reasons, right?
You can call these connections edges.
That's the computer sciency term for
it is the various edges in the graph.
Now, what I just described to you,
the Facebook social graph is what
we call bidirectional graph.
Which means, if I'm friends with you,
you are friends with me.
Sorry, that's the way it is.
But because it's connected in one way,
it's implicit that you
are connected in the other way.
A good example of a unidirectional
graph would be something like Twitter,
where like I follow you,
but you don't follow me.
So in this particular case we
are going to be unidirectional graphs.
But almost all of these things work apply
as well with directional graphs, as well.
In Facebook's example,
each person would be a node.
And the node represents some entity,
you can think that entity is
almost a row in an SQL database.
It's an object, it could be
a document in a Mongo database.
Or hopefully, if you're doing
graphs you are using something more
like a graph database like Neo4j or
something like that, cool.
Graphs are just everywhere,
various social networks,
a lot of internet of things that
have mesh networking, right?
Those are graphs of sorts as well.
Neural networks, so
like machine learning and AI,
that's just graphs up and down, right?
Especially, neural networks, they're
just neuron nodes that just fire and
strengthen graph edges and
things like that.
It's all turtles all the way down.
It's just grass everywhere
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
machine learning in particular,
very very cool.
And I think that, this is just more and
more technology beginning to
mirror what nature's, right?
In terms of nature, everything is
connected to each other, right?
And so, what we're doing with
computer science now is we're
modeling how things connect together,
so really cool stuff.
And some of these things that we're about
to get into is gonna be kinda familiar
because it's gonna sound like things
we've already talked about, weird.
So let's picture that we have this
social network, that I'm right there.
And I'm connected to both Bob and Maria.
And Bob is connected to Sally and Alice.
And Alice is connected to Bob and Maria.
>> Brian Holt: In this particular example,
that we're gonna do together,
it's gonna be like if LinkedIn and Twitter
had a horrible social network baby.
It's a unidirectional graph that's
a professional network, right?
So let's say,
I wanted to find the most common job
title in my social network
of the people that I follow.
So I would check, if I wanted to
check just one degree of separation,
so people that I'm actually connected to.
Then I would check Bob and Maria, right?
But if I wanted to check two degrees of
separation, I would check Bob and Maria.
They're both connected to Alice, so
the key here is that I only check Alice
once, because Alice is just one person.
But I would also check Sally,
so two degrees of separation.
And we can go on and
kind of fan out around this network.
Now, you might be looking at this and
say, well this is,
kind of back to trees again, right?
I don't have it diagrammed out.
But I would essentially, be the root
node in this particular tree, right?
And I'd be traversing this graph,
look at Bob and look at Maria and
then I'd look at all their children.
And then, I'll look at those children and
those children and those children, right?
So it's again very, very much like a tree.
In fact, it's kind of the opposite
relationship that trees are just kind of
a special form of graphs.
[LAUGH] So what's cool about that,
is we get to apply the kind of the same
lines of thinking, the same algorithms,
and it still works with graphs,
which is really, really cool.
There's just some more concerns
that we have to worry about, right?
We have to worry about there
are circular references, right?
I'm connected to Bob, who's connect
to Alice, who's connected to Maria,
who's connected to me again.
I don't want to count myself
twice as well, right?
So it's kind of these circles that we
kind of have to be careful of, but
all you have to do is keep track of yeah,
I wrote to Alice before.
And now,
I'm not going to look at her again, right?
The same thing as it was like a blocked
node in our pathfinding algorithm that
we were just doing.
So let's say that I have a network,
I follow a hundred people and
a wanna check within four
levels of separation
the most common job title.
Well I'm trying to process
all these nodes in a tree and
I need to check each one of them, and I
wanna stay close to the root node, right?
Because I don't wanna go all the way out
to the 17 millionth connection level.
This sounds a lot like
breadth first traversal.
So I'm sorry, but
I'm gonna make you write it again.
[LAUGH] This is all just
breadth first traversal,
except I'm just limiting
how deep I'm gonna go.
Rather than going all the way
to the bottom of the tree,
I'm just gonna go four levels deep and
then I'm done right?
>> Brian Holt: So let's make sure
that I cover everything I wanted to.
Yeah, I mean, that's the big difference
here with grass versus trees.
With grass, there's no clear
Pparent-child relationship,
it's just peer to peer connections really.
This could be solved with
depth-first traversal, just don't.
[LAUGH] You just have to make sure
that you weren't going to deep and
that would work as well.
It lends itself very well
to that while loop, right?
We were doing the while
until the queue was empty.
Now, we're just gonna do a four
loop that only goes x iterations,
until you've gone as deep as you wanna go.
It just really works well that way.
So questions about graphs?
>> Brian Holt: Any questions
about graphs before we move on?
>> Speaker 2: Is there a different
name for bidirectional and
unidirectional edges?
I feel like I've heard
something different, but
I can't remember where it was.
>> Brian Holt: The answer's
almost assuredly, yes.
[LAUGH] Could not tell you
off the top of my head.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so just as we have
talked about, I worked at LinkedIn.
This is stuff that LinkedIn
is constantly doing.
It's constantly investigating
clusters of people and
they're trying to figure out where
there are holes in the job market.
So they could just say, hey, just so
you know, you're looking for a job,
you're looking for education.
You could fill this need because in
Alaska there are lacking orthodontists or
something like that, right?
These are the really interesting
insights that graphs can give you.